We're storing the token in our store.
The problem just is this story gets re-initialize on every page refresh so persisting our log in tokened
across page refreshes is not possible right now in a traditional single page application.
You want stored a token in local storage and when your application starts up you would typically just
check local storage for the existence of the token.
See if it's still valid from expiry time perspective and if it is stored in your music store and you're
good to go.
The problem we have is that what do we refresh the page.
We actually execute code on the server.
We can't access local storage.
There are whole store is initialized here with next server in it.
This runs on the server as the name implies.
So here we can check whether we have the token in local storage.
Now there are work arounds.
One thing we can do is we can dispatch an action from within our default layout for example this will
fire when our application starts for the first time and we could use it or from the add in the layout
and we could use it to simply then dispatch an action immediately when the first page using that layout
is getting rendered.
And when that is the case we could dispatch an action where we look into our local storage and initialize
our store with that token if we got it.
Now that is a road we absolutely can take a different approach would be to create a special middleware
which we attach to routes where we need the token where we simply check for the existence of the token
in the middleware.
And if we got token then we set it in the store.
I prefer this approach.
So what we can do is we can first of all stored a token when we get it before we talk about something
else.
So when we get to user and we set the token in our store here in Buick's I also want to reach out to
local storage and said item my token queue the token.
I got back so to the ID token from the response.
Now does this getting stored in local storage to next.
I will add a new action which will name in it off where I also get X context and in turn it off.
I will check local storage and get my token.
I'll store this in a token constant then and this will however be undefined if we don't have a token
in our storage or it will be the token we stored the last time.
We should also not only store the token but we should also store the expiry time saw a set set item
token expiration.
However this should not be resolved expire Zain because that's just an amount in seconds and storing
debt doesn't help us.
We need to know the time stamp when it's expire is not the amount and second because we don't know when
will fatuus the next time.
So actually here I will get the current date with new date and on the current date we can call gets
time.
This gives us the current time in milliseconds and we can simply add result expires in times 1000 there.
This gives us a time stamp in the future when this will expire and we can store this in local storage
in in in it off the air for all to want to get to that.
The motto can be expiration date can be gotten from or can be fed from local storage get item and now
it's token expiration and with these two values I can check if new dates of the current date when we're
executing this is greater then the expiration date which means it has expired.
This is I just want to return and don't do anything else.
If that's not the case we know the token is still valid.
If something else is the case I want to return if we don't have a token because in this case well even
if it would still be valid we don't have one.
So if the date is expired or the tokenistic bar so if the date is prior to our current date or if we
don't have a token then it will return.
In either case we can continue and we can then call you x context commit set token and pass the token
we got from local storage.
So now we're persisting this in the local storage and we're fetching it in IT OFF.
Our goal now has to be to execute in that off to fetch the token from local storage.
When ever we well dispatched as action as I mentioned I want to use a middleware for this.
So let's go to the middleware folder.
Let's create a new file.
And let's name it check of J.S. in there.
I will copy my off Shreyas code and I will do something different.
Know of course I simply want to do one thing.
I want to call context store dispatch in it off.
I would simply call or dispatch does action whenever dismayed or Away runs to see if our token is valid
if we got a token does middleware is now attached to all files where we need a token.
So essentially to all files we attached the middleware to so go to the index that you fall in the admin
area.
And here we now got off but first of all I got to check off the order here is important to execute middleware
in that order and I'll copy that to new post also.
And I will copy it to my index don't you fall here in the post ID folder in the Edmond area.
Now to see the order.
Let's also add icons a long statement to both malwares.
So here we got middleware.
Check off in our copy that CONS a lock step into the off middleware.
So here I got just off let's save all these files and let's return to our application.
If I reload the page I'm redirected to dissipate here.
Let's try to go to just admen and we get an error.
We got an error.
A local storage is not defined.
Now where is that coming from.
As you can see it starts executing check off because it's our first middleware but then in IT OFF failed
because local storage is not defined.
The problem is that I mentioned that we actually run middleware on the server as well as on the client
and if we refresh the page it runs on the server.
The problem is on the server there is no local storage.
That's a browser feature.
So storing the token in local storage like this won't work.
What we of course can do is we can go back to the check of middleware and check where we're running.
I can check if process is client that's using an environment variable provided by next and only if that's
the case then I want to dispatch this action.
Now if we save this and we go back to our application and our reload admin now is S.M. redirect that.
So now this does not fail.
Now it works correctly it executes check off and then chust off.
But the problem now of course is we didn't solve the issue of persisting the token across refresh us.
The only thing we solved is that if I now go back and log in and in between load a non admin route and
then go back to the admin section then it still works because storing the token the local storage worked.
And if I reloaded unknown admin route we went around the problem of executing the middleware on the
server and then by clicking on admen we executed it on the client and therefore could successfully dispatch
in it off and fetch the token.
So this is now working but of course this is not ideal.
We want to support refresh us in the admin area too.
So we should be able to run this middleware on the server too.
Let's work on this in the next ELECTRESS.
However there is one thing I want to fix real quick I noticed if we initialize authentication like this.
Well then we should of course also dispatch our set log out timer here because if we set the token like
that well obviously we want to set the timer too.
So let's call this fetch your set.
Log out timer and I'll pass something to said log out timer and that something should be the difference
between the expiration date and the current date expiration date already is stored as milliseconds so
I'll simply subtract new date gets time.
So the current time stamp in milliseconds dessous the remaining time and will add up plus in front of
expiration date.
To convert this to a number.
Now here I also recognized this check.
I should also use gets time on the current date to convert this to Molli seconds because this already
is.
You can also add up last year to convert this string to a number.
So with these changes in place this is fixed.
Let's now move on to fixing this problem of reloading on the Admin Page and still being able to get
the token.